add report job description (#5)
arviz-devs/GSoD: 2021/viz_evaluation.md

# Evaluation of data visualization effectiveness
ArviZ is a Python and Julia library for exploratory analysis of Bayesian models,
and includes many [vizualizations](https://arviz-devs.github.io/arviz/examples/index.html)
to that end.

> As ArviZ developers we try to follow the literature on effective data visualization,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As ArviZ developers we strive to follow the literature on effective data visualization,
```

  we are doing well (if any) and things we need to improve. Any and
  all points related to styling, layout, combination of multiple elements
  can be considered here.

* Analysis of usage advise

  Evaluate current advise included in the ArviZ documentation about
  using each plotting function. As a first approximation this
  should be a list of useful references per plot so users can
  better understand when and how to use each of them.

The report should be completed by June 2022. We are aiming for an
ArviZ team meeting and/or Bayesian workflow unconference sometime
in July-August 2022 and want to have this report available to inform
our roadmap planning.

We emphasize again the need for the report to include rationale for
all comments and references where appropriate. While the report will
be written around ArviZ, it will be published here and we expect
it to be useful to other similar libraries like bayesplot.

Moreover, it could also act as a seed of a centralized resource
maintained by all Bayesian data viz libraries with advise on
how and when to use each plot, combining them...

## Job requirements
* Not being part of the ArviZ team

> * Familiarity with data visualization and uncertainty visualization literature (TODO: any good way

Reviewer: Ask for prior work, ask them to provide a short explanation on one of our plots

  to evaluate this when getting applications?)
* Familiarity with open source and ability to navigate ArviZ issues and documentation
  * We have many open issues and even some PRs related to changes in our plotting module.

## Payment
The budget for this project is $2000 which will be paid through NumFOCUS
via [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/arviz), wire transfer or PayPal.

Don't hesitate to contact us if you have any doubts about the payment process.

## Contact

> For any inquiries about this project, please reach out on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/arviz-devs/season_of_docs).

Reviewer 2: Did we have github discussions enabled?

Reviewer: How about emailing us as well?

Author: I would list a pubic venue for questions (gitter or discussions, but only one so it's easy for us to track) and then gather applications to the ArviZ email. Unless it's something sensitive, I'd discourage questions by mail because those need to be asked again if the next person has the same doubt. 

The application process is still todo completely based on discussions about the requirements and how to evaluate them

Reviewer 3: I agree that e-mail or in general private communication should be restricted to sensitive issues and we should encourage open discussion.

# Evaluation of data visualization effectiveness
ArviZ is a Python and Julia library for exploratory analysis of Bayesian models,
and includes many [vizualizations](https://arviz-devs.github.io/arviz/examples/index.html)
to that end.

> As ArviZ developers we try to follow the literature on effective data visualization,
> especially around communicating uncertainty, but we might not have time to
> keep up with everything, we might be weighted down by bad practices we still have
> not managed and we might not always have time to update the code when a new
> recommendation or visualization type is made available.
> Probably a combination of all 3 and some extra factors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As ArviZ developers we try to follow the literature on effective data visualization,
especially around communicating uncertainty, but there are many factors that make this difficult. Including but not restricted to lack of time to implement or update code, publications that slipped under our radar, unconscious biases towards bad practices.
```

Therefore, to ensure ArviZ is an active agent in advocating and popularizing
effective data visualization practices we budgeted $2000 as part of our GSoD
2021 application to pay someone external to the team to evaluate the
plots that are available in ArviZ and their defaults.

## Job description
We are expecting a report covering the following points:

* Analysis of available and missing visualizations

  Evaluate which visualizations should be present in ArviZ but are not.

>   Each visualization list how it would serve ArviZ's goal and some
>   degree of addition priority, not necessarily a ranking, could be
>   binning missing visualizations in 3-4 high-low priority categories.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  For each visualization we should get a description of how it would serve ArviZ's goal and some degree of addition priority, not necessarily a ranking, could be
  binning missing visualizations in 3 or 4 high to low priority categories.
```

* Analysis of current defaults

  Evaluate if ArviZ defaults follow best practices. Write down both things
  we are doing well (if any) and things we need to improve. Any and
  all points related to styling, layout, combination of multiple elements
  can be considered here.

* Analysis of usage advise

>   Evaluate the advise included in the ArviZ documentation about
>   using each plotting function. As a first approximation this
>   should be a list of useful references per plot so users can
>   better understand when and how to use each of them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Evaluate current advise included in the ArviZ documentation about
  using each plotting function. As a first approximation this
  should be a list of useful references per plot so users can
  better understand when and how to use each of them.
```

The report should be completed by June 2022. We are aiming for an
ArviZ team meeting and/or Bayesian workflow unconference sometime
in July-August 2022 and want to have this report available to inform
our roadmap planning.

We emphasize again the need for the report to include rationale for
all comments and references where appropriate. While the report will
be written around ArviZ, it will be published here and we expect

> it to be useful to other similar libraries like bayesplot.

Reviewer 3: link to bayesplot webpage?

Moreover, it could also act as a seed of a centralized resource
maintained by all Bayesian data viz libraries with advise on
how and when to use each plot, combining them...

## Job requirements
* Not being part of the ArviZ team

> * Familiarity with data visualization and uncertainty visualization literature (TODO: any good way

Reviewer 3: maybe too high requirements for the money, but  scientific papers and/or previous experience with scientific visualization?

Author: we could add that yes, money doesn't worry too much on that end. The job is clear (hopefully) and fixed and imo $2000 is fair for the job asked. 

I think that the more knowledgeable and aware of current literature they are the less time they'll need to write the report, that should account for that hourly rate needing to be be higher?

Reviewer 3: I agree is fair amount, and you have a very good point  expertise level  and hourly rate.

  to evaluate this when getting applications?)
* Familiarity with open source and ability to navigate ArviZ issues and documentation

>   * We have many open issues and even some PRs related to changes in our plotting module.

Reviewer 3: This is not a requirement. Is part of the job to resolve those PR or just to organize them, check if they are coherence or aligned with good practices?

Author: I'd say definitely not resolving this PRs, I'd expect whoever we hire for this to write no code at all. But they need to be able to see for example the ecdf PR and include it in the report in some manner as it's not available but it's not completely missing either and might or might not follow good practices already in the PR state. 

Similar things for issues, we might have proposals aligned with good practices but we also might have some that are not. The way I see it, especially for potential bad practices being proposed, there might be things there that might not come in the report otherwise. i.e. seeing https://github.com/arviz-devs/arviz/issues/1654 might prompt a section on hdi intervals and regions and how users interpret them that wouldn't be there otherwise.

Reviewer 3: thanks for the clarification. Then I think we should move this to the job description. Something like "The report should also consider the opened issues and PRs related to changes in our plotting module...."

Reviewer: Agree with Osvaldo
